It was the month of June and the weather was
beautiful. Stuart left school. He was on
holiday, but he was not happy. He did not have
a motorbike. Stuart was 17 years old.
He left school, but he did not start work. All
his mates started work immediately, but
Stuart did not want to work. He wanted a long
holiday, and he needed a motorbike. Stuart
went to the city full of offices, shops, and factories.
It is not a good place for a
holiday. Martin, a friend of Stuart's, worked in a garage.
Martin had a bike for sale. It
was a beauty, a Japanese Suzuki. Martin wanted 350 pounds
for the bike, but Stuart did not
have 350 pounds. He did not have any money. Stuart
went and looked at the bike every day.
It was a beauty. He wanted to buy it. Where
can I find 350 pounds? Stuart asked himself.
Stuart left the garage and walked back home. His house
was in Blenham Street near the
University. There were lots of old empty houses in Blenham
Street. The University was one of
the land and buildings. Most of the old houses in
Blenham Street belonged to the University.
Some of these houses had been empty for years. Stuart
often searched through them. Sometimes
he found old books and gramophone records. One day, he
told himself, I'll find something
valuable. There was a large house at the corner of
Blenham Street. Its owner, a rich, old
woman, had died a few days ago. The University bought
the house immediately. Now the house
was empty. There was wood across the front door and
the windows were broken. Someone looked
out of a window. It was a man of about
20. He had long hair and was wearing a headband.
He looked strange. He was a squatter. Squatters live in
old empty houses and they don't pay
any rent. The stranger waved to Stuart. He wanted to
speak to Stuart. What does he want? Stuart
like to help me. Okay. Watch this house. How long?
Half an hour. Okay. I'm Stuart. My name's Frank.
I'll go and get my things. Are you going to
squatter here, Frank? Yes. Don't let anyone else in.
I'll be back soon. Okay. See you. Frank walked off
slowly down the street. His head was
bent forward and he was looking down at the pavement.
He was about 20 but he looked much
older. Frank went round the corner and Stuart turned towards
the house. It looked interesting.
The window was low, quite near the ground. The street
was empty. Stuart put one leg over
the window sill and looked inside. Outside the sun was
shining brightly. Inside the house it was
dark. Stuart stood for a few moments and waited. Slowly
the inside of the room became clearer.
There was a calendar on the wall. Lots of old
newspapers were lying around on the floor.
There was a mattress against the far wall. It looked
new. Stuart looked up and down the street.
There was no one around. He quickly climbed into the
room. Stuart walked to the middle of the room
and kicked away the old newspapers. There was nothing underneath
them. There was no carpet
and the floorboards were covered with dirt. Stuart took the
calendar down from the wall.
It was an old one, five years old. No one
had changed it for five years.
Then Stuart remembered. The owner of the house, the old
woman, had been ill for a long time.
She hadn't got out of her bed for five years.
The mattress was leaning against the far wall. Stuart went
over and looked at it carefully.
It was a good mattress. Stuart picked up the mattress
and turned it over carefully.
There was some stitching along one side, about ten centimeters
long.
Stuart held the mattress between his knees and took out
a small knife.
Stuart cut the stitches carefully and then put his hand
in the hole. He felt a bundle of newspapers
and pulled it out. He quickly unwrapped it. Inside the
bundle of newspapers there were some bank notes.
Suddenly, Stuart heard a voice. It was Frank. Hey, Stuart,
where are you? Frank was shouting.
Stuart quickly wrapped up the money inside the newspapers.
He held the bundle behind his back. I'm in here,
Frank. He shouted.
Frank came up to the window and looked into the
room.
What are you doing in there? Frank asked.
Nothing! replied Stuart. I'm looking around.
Frank climbed into the room and came closer to Stuart.
Stuart moved to the wall. He held the bundle of
newspapers behind his back.
Frank looked around the room. He didn't see Stuart's knife
on the floor.
You haven't taken anything, have you?
Asked Frank.
I haven't taken anything of yours, replied Stuart.
You've moved this mattress, said Frank.
Frank picked up the mattress and turned it over carefully.
Then he saw the hole in the side.
You cut this mattress. It was stitched. Is this your
knife?
Yes. What were you doing? Nothing.
You found something. I didn't. What's that in your hand?
Where? Behind your back. Nothing. You got something. Some old
newspapers.
And them over. They're mine!
Stuart remembered the motorbike. He needed the money.
He was going to keep it. It was his money,
not Frank's.
Frank was holding Stuart's knife in his hand. He came
nearer to Stuart.
Give me those newspapers. He said again.
Stuart had an idea.
There's something else in the mattress, he said to Frank.
There was something under the newspapers. It's still there.
Frank looked at Stuart for a few moments. He didn't
believe him at first.
Look and see, said Stuart.
Frank put the knife down on the floor. He picked
up the mattress and put his hand deep in the
hole.
Stuart did not wait for a moment. He turned and
jumped out through the window into the street.
He ran quickly. There was a turning on the right.
Stuart ran around the corner. He heard a shout behind
him. It was Frank.
Around the corner, there was another old empty house. It
had a large garden on one side.
Thick bushes had grown all over the garden. Stuart jumped
over the low wall.
He ran for a few meters and then hid under
some bushes.
Stuart heard more shouting and footsteps. The footsteps became louder
than they stopped.
Stuart waited silently. He did not breathe. Then the footsteps
started once again.
Stuart laughed quietly to himself.
Frank had quickly picked up Stuart's knife. He jumped out
of the window after him.
Frank saw Stuart. He was running around the corner.
Frank ran after him and turned the corner. But the
street was empty.
Frank stopped for a few moments and looked around. He
noticed the old garden.
Perhaps he's in there. Thought Frank. But everything in the
garden was quiet.
Frank saw nothing. There was another corner farther down the
street.
Frank started running again. He was still holding Stuart's knife.
Stuart was happy. He had escaped from Frank with the
money.
Stuart sat up under the bushes and opened up the
newspapers.
The banknotes were wrapped tightly together.
Stuart unwrapped them and counted them carefully.
10, 20, 30.
325.
125.
Stuart had found 325 pounds and Martin wanted 350 pounds
for his motorbike.
It was cool in the garden and Stuart lay back
under the bushes.
I'll wait here for half an hour, thought Stuart. Then
I'll go to Martin.
It was now nearly 12 o'clock. The day was
getting much hotter.
A police car was parked in a side street.
There were two policemen in the car. The sergeant, a
fat, round-faced man, was half asleep.
The other policeman was younger and taller. He was a
constable.
Suddenly, the constable sat up. He had seen something strange.
"'Wake up, Sergeant,' he shouted. Look over there!'
"'Where? Look at what,' asked the sergeant, still half asleep.
"'Over there! Someone's running with a knife,' replied the constable.
"'The man's gone mad. It's this heat.'
"'Wake! Get out and catch him,' said the sergeant.
The two policemen jumped out of their car. Frank saw
the policeman.
He threw Stuart's knife away and started to run. The
constable soon caught him and held his arm
tightly. The sergeant found the knife in some long grass.
The constable took Frank towards the
police car. The sergeant came up to them. He was
holding the knife.
"'Oh, it's you,' the sergeant said to Frank.
"'What's going on, Frank? I'm looking for a guy. With
a knife? What guy? He stole in my money.
What money? How much money? I don't know. A lot.
He don't know.
Where did you get it? In an old house. Come
on into the car."
"'Where are you taking me?' asked Frank. To the police
station,' replied the constable.
"'But I haven't done anything. The money was mine. That
guy took it. But what's his name?
Stuart. Stuart took it. "'Who's Stuart?' asked the constable.
"'I met him in an old house,' replied Frank. "'Where
you found the money?' asked the sergeant.
"'Yes,' I found it inside a mattress,' said Frank. "'Who's
got the money now?'
asked the sergeant. "'That guy, Stuart,' he ran away with
it.
"'So now we have to find Stuart,' said the constable.
Stuart waited in the garden for half an hour. It
was getting hotter. It was nearly 12 o'clock.
"'I'll have to move now,' thought Stuart. Martin goes for
his lunch at half past 12.
Stuart looked out carefully from the bushes. The garden was
empty.
He hurried out of the garden onto the street. He
walked towards Martin's garage.
Stuart did not see the police car. It stopped outside
the garden a few moments later.
"'Look in this garden,' Frank told the policeman. Perhaps he's
hiding in here.
"'Hi, Martin. Hi, Stuart. How much for the bike?'
£350. I want it. How much for me? Still £350.
Have you any money? Yes. How much? £300.
£300. That's not enough. £325?
Okay. She's yours. Great. Thanks.
The policeman got out of the car. Frank got out,
too. The constable held his arm tightly.
The sergeant went into the garden. He looked around for
some time. Then he came back.
He was holding a bundle of newspapers.
"'There's no one there,' the sergeant said, that I found
these old newspapers.
"'That's them,' shouted Frank. Something was wrapped in those newspapers.'
Just then a motorbike drove up towards the police car.
"'That's him,' shouted Frank excitedly. That's the guy. He's bought
a motorbike with my money.
"'Stop,' the sergeant called to Stuart. Stop.'
Stuart did not see Frank. What do the police want?'
Stuart asked himself.
"'I haven't done anything wrong. I'm driving correctly.'
Stuart stopped the bike by the side of the road.
He took off his helmet.
"'Is that bike yours?' the sergeant asked him.
"'Yes, it's mine,' replied Stuart. I'd bought it at the
garage down the road.'
Then Stuart saw Frank.
"'What have you told these cops?' Stuart shouted angrily at
Frank.
"'We'll all go to this garage,' said the sergeant. They
all walked back to Martin's garage.
"'A big black cloud now covered the sun. It was
beginning to rain.
"'So this loud fades you 325 pounds for this bike,'
the sergeant said to Martin. Martin agreed.
"'And where did you get this money?' the sergeant asked
Stuart.
"'I found it,' replied Stuart. I found it in a
mattress. It was in an empty house.'
The sergeant took the money from Martin.
"'We'll look after this money,' he said. You two can
go now.
"'It's my money,' shouted Frank. "'Do you want to come
to the police station with us?'
asked the constable.
Frank walked away, still shouting.
"'I'm sorry,' Martin said to Stuart.
"'It's my bike again.'
"'Not for long,' replied Stuart.
"'What do you mean?' asked the sergeant.
"'It has started to rain now,' replied Stuart.
"'I don't want a holiday. I'm going to get a
job.
"'I'm going to save another 325 pounds and buy that
bike.'
"'Money for a Motorbike was read by William Gaminara and
the recording produced by James Richardson at Studio AVP London.'